.\" $Id: luac.man,v 1.5 1998/01/12 13:04:24 lhf Exp lhf $
.TH LUAC 1 "19 January 1998"
.SH NAME
luac \- Lua compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B luac
[
.B \-c | \-u
]
[
.B \-d
]
[
.B \-l
]
[
.B \-p
]
[
.B \-q
]
[
.B \-v
]
[
.B \-o
.I outputfile
]
.I sourcefile
\&.\|.\|.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B luac
is the Lua compiler.
It translates programs written in the Lua programming language
into binary files that can be loaded and executed with
.B lua_dofile
in C or with
.B dofile
in Lua.
.LP
The main advantages of pre-compiling chunks are:
faster loading,
protecting source code from user changes,
off-line syntax error detection.
.LP
.B luac
produces a single output file containing the bytecodes
for all named source files.
By default,
the output file is named
.B luac.out ,
but you can change this with the
.B \-o
option.
.LP
You can use
.B "\-"
to indicate
.I stdin
as a source file.
.LP
.B luac
can also load and list binary files with the
.B \-u
option.
.LP
Binary files produced by differents runs of
.B luac
can be combined into one large file.
The result is still a valid binary file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c
compile (this is the default).
.TP
.B \-u
undump, i.e., load and list the given binary files.
If no files are given, then luac undumps
.BR luac.out .
.TP
.BI \-D " name"
predefine symbol
.I name
for conditional compilation.
.TP
.B \-d
turns debugging on.
.TP
.B \-l
produces a listing of the compiled bytecode for Lua's virtual machine.
This is the default when undumping.
.TP
.B \-p
parses sources files but does not generate any output file.
Used mainly for timing purposes.
.TP
.B \-q
quiet; produces no listing.
This is the default when compiling.
.TP
.B \-v
prints version information.
.TP
.B \-V
verbose.
.TP
.BI \-o " outputfile"
name the output file
.IR output ,
instead of the default
.BR luac.out .
The output file cannot be a source file.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B luac.out
default output file
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lua (1)
.br
.I "Reference Manual of the Programming Language Lua"
.br
http://www.tecgraf.puc-rio.br/lua/
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Error messages should be self explanatory.
.SH BUGS
Inherits any bugs from Lua,
but Lua has no bugs...
.SH AUTHORS
W. Celes, R. Ierusalimschy and L. H. de Figueiredo
.I (lua@tecgraf.puc-rio.br)
